---
layout: post
title: Happy New Year 2022
type: post
published: true
---

My Dearest Mad-Readers,

First and foremost, I would like to wish you a very **happy new year 2022**. I
decided to write this post to explain what I have been up to since the last
time you read me. I would like it to represent a new beginning, as a phoenix
being reborn from his ashes.

## What I Have Been Doing Lately

#### Linguistics

Let us begin with linguistics. It is no secret that it is one of my favorite
things on earth, so it makes sense for it to be at the top of my priorities. I
have been working a lot on my Italian, but this will not come as a surprise. I
still need to learn many things and perfect my knowledge of others: I can
recognize the *passato remoto* when I read books, and understand, its meaning
but I am still having difficulty using it myself. I already have a good
vocabulary base thanks to my skills in French and in English but I would like
to broaden it even more in the months and years to come.

Since I have reached a decent enough level in Italian (I can speak fluently and
keep growing toward proficiency a little bit more everyday), I have decided to
begin learning a new language. It took me several months to actually make up my
mind but, in the first days of November, I finally picked up German again.
After years of focusing on other languages and having other priorities, I am
finally giving it the attention it deserves.

My current goal in German is more or less the same as it was with English and
as it still is with Italian. I am not yet targeting the same level of
proficiency but I hope to be able to speak it and understand it well enough by
the end of the year 2022.

Since this is also related to my passion for languages, I would also like to
tell you that I terminated my company. I may retry to be financially
independent later but I wish to concentrate on other priorities first. I also
want a more stable situation. For those of you who would be interested,
**I still give online lessons: in English, in French, and even in Italian** (I
am especially active on Italki!).

In my previous blog post *My Sins As A Linux User*, I said that I installed
Telegram and Instagram and that I had to make sacrifices for the success of my
company. Well, I no longer have to do that. I deleted many accounts in the past
few months: Instagram, Monster, Telegram... and more recently, I deleted my
Google account, which means that I no longer have a YouTube channel. I may
re-publish some of my videos on Odyssee but not all of them. I do not intend to
publish videos in which one could see my face, for instance. I may delete other
accounts in the future but, for the time being, I consider I have already a
decent enough online cleanup.

### Technology

In terms of technology, I have not remained inactive at all.

Another great success was **my switch from Thunderbird to Neomutt**. It took me a
lot of time to configure it and then get used to it, but I do not regret my
choice. I learned SO MUCH! I now enjoy a freedom that Thunderbird could never
have offered me. I am certain I could optimize Neomutt even more but it is
fully functional, at the very least. I wrote a perl script, which you can find
in my wiki, (in the scripts section, surprisingly), and which warns me when I
get new mail. It is not perfect but, for now, it does the job well. Coupled
with a CRON job, it synchronizes my various mailboxes every 15 minutes. I could
have it run every minute but I find it unnecessary. Feel free to send me an
email if you have suggestions regarding how I could better my system!

I also fully configured **Calcurse** and wrote a script that I also coupled
with CRON.  This way it emails me important events and to-dos on a daily
basis. I did a lot of research to directly get a message on my phone (send
an email from my server which I would get as an SMS) but I haven't yet been
able to find something that works for me. Unfortunately, it seems that the
French network will not make this easy for me. I have thought of another
solution, such as KDEConnect, but it fails to satisfy me. Ideally, I would like
to stop being dependent on my smartphone entirely. I would like that potential
solution to work both on smartphone and older phones. Yes, I am part of these
people who think a phone should not be a smaller version of your laptop but
should mostly be used to make calls and send a few texts here and there... I am
not old yet!

Something that will certainly interest you: I re-published a much cleaner
version of **my wiki**!

It was originally structured in such a chaotic way that it took me days to
clean it up and organize it properly. You see, that wiki used to be a very
selfish project. It mostly was for me and I believed that a file would be more
than enough. Every once in a while, I would add content to it and it kept
growing and growing for so many months that, eventually, I had no choice. If I
wanted it to be actually readable by everyone, I had to redesign it entirely.
Which I did, and I love the result. Again, feel free to send me an email if you
have suggestions or fork the entire project if you feel you could do better!

There are several other projects which I am quite proud of, but I will try and
condense them:

I installed **Nextcloud** and **WordPress** on my Raspberry Pi. I may not have
written about my Raspberry Pi yet, so here is what you should know: it is a
model 4B with 8 GB of Ram. The operating system I run on it is Raspbian, a
lighter version of Debian which was actually designed for the Pi. Both
installations offer me more freedom for various reasons. Nextcloud is a cloud
instance that I self-host. I mostly use it to experiment, but it did turn out
convenient to have my own cloud a few times. As you know, I recently
**deleted my Google account**, so I expect to use Nextcloud more in the
months and years to come. As for WordPress, I intend to stop using it
entirely very soon, but I still want to keep it around. It is a useful skill
to maintain and I enjoyed working with WordPress anyway. To put it clearly,
this means I do not intend to delete my current account. This way I get to keep
a private instance of my old blog. This is primarily for backup purposes, but I
am not yet certain how long this will last, since I have also downloaded my
entire blog with **wget** already.

The free time I had this summer also allowed me to study Perl more in depths,
as well as PHP and MySQL. I would not pretend that I have reached a
professional level in PHP or MySQL but at least I now have a decent
understanding of them. This makes me a more complete developer and I am certain
these skills will prove useful one day. As for Perl, I developed a project
which I added to my **portfolio**: a **password manager**. It is very similar
to **pass** but I very much encourage you to try it out. I could definitely use
some constructive criticism. When you do, you should notice that I implemented
**dmenu** by default! (It was necessary, I think!) It is a far-from-perfect
version of pass, so if you are a perl developer and want to better it, just
make a pull request already!

I re-discovered a lot of Microsoft software, playing around with it in
Virtualbox. This was necessary, because I am still looking for a job as an IT
professional. More specifically, I am not particularly looking to become a
developer, but a network and computer systems administrator. I would like to
begin with entry-level jobs (be a technician and then become sysadmin) and,
with this purpose in mind, I saw it as a necessity to refresh my Microsoft
skills. So I has a look at Windows Server, Microsoft Exchange, revised network
protocols, learned what ERPs and CRMs are, and so on and so forth...

Finally, I have been very active on discord: I created my own discord server for
friends, fellow developers and linguists; and I also joined several other servers.
One of them is *La Congrega degli informatici*. It is an Italian group of
developers and technicians that I help administrating. We used to answer many
technical questions but we now focus on discussions and debates. If you can
speak Italian and are interested in technologies, I highly encourage you to
join us. I may not remain among their staff for a lot longer but I still intend
to keep around, so we could definitely have a chat!

### Other

The pandemic and all the propaganda contributed to convincing me to do one
thing: educate myself better. You see, my scientific knowledge is rather
limited when it comes to biology, chemistry, and physics. I decided to put an
end to that ignorance and make the first step: I purchased a book about
biology in order to understand the world better and make my own opinion. I
believe this knowledge is now essential to my survival. Otherwise, I might
always be subject to manipulations. That, I cannot accept. Knowledge is
power, people. Keep that in mind!

## Future Projects

+ Start a podcast && publish blog posts more regularly. I am not yet sure about
  the podcast. I know that I want to make one but I do not yet have the
  necessary ideas and motivation to get started.

+ Learn Spanish: I am getting closer and closer to becoming a polyglot. I find
  it very exciting since I should soon be able to communicate with most people
  in Europe (at least countries close to France). I am currently working on a
  priority list of languages I will learn when I reach a decent enough level in
  German. Spanish interests me for several reasons: it is widely spoken, and
  there are many variants (dialects). Obviously, it is not the only language
  which I find appealing. Portuguese has also caught my attention and, after
  many years of watching anime, I keep fancying Japanese. Recently, I also
  began considering Latin and Greek. I would like to understand the depths of
  etymology with more precision. I am already rather capable with etymology but
  I would like to know so much more...

+ Travel: This pandemic has been hell for me, as for a lot of you. It has
  had its upsides but its main downside is that it has completely stopped me
  from traveling. There is so much political turmoil in the world at the moment
  that I would rather find a stable job in France to let it all pass. I had
  several opportunities abroad but I had to renounce them to remain loyal to my
  convictions and principles. I even had to say "no" to **my dream job**. Would
  you see yourself do this?

+ Restart writing: in French but also in English and perhaps even in Italian.

+ Work on more programming projects. Most likely in perl!

## Warning?

As you have noticed, my blog's appearance has drastically changed again.
My blog will no longer be available on WordPress. I decided to have a much
simpler one with github pages and jekyll. This way I can control everything and
it will be even easier when I wish to move my blog to a personal server. That
server might be a VPS (Virtual Private Server), I'm quite interested in Linode
and OVH (it is French, after all!); or a dedicated one. I have not yet decided.

This is everything for today, folks! I hope you enjoyed reading me again after
all this time. Hopefully, you should read some more very soon! Do not forget to
share. If you like my blog posts, you now have only 2 ways of showing it:
+ Share my content!
+ Send me an email and say *hi*!

Take care of yourselves,
Phil.
